.TH "LXT2VCD" "1" "3.3.39" "Anthony Bybell" "Filetype Conversion"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
lxt2vcd \- Converts LXT2 files to VCD
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
lxt2vcd [\fIoption\fP]... [\fILXT2FILE\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
Converts LXT2 files to VCD files on stdout.  If an output filename is not specified, the VCD is emitted to stdout.  Note that "regular" LXT2 files will convert to VCD files with monotonically increasing time values.  LXT2
files which are dumped with the "partial" option (to speed up access in wave viewers) will dump with monotonically increasing time values per 2k block
of nets.  This may be fixed in later versions of \fIlxt2vcd\fP.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.TP
\fB\-l,\-\-lxtname\fR <\fIfilename\fP>
Specify LXT2 input filename.
.TP
\fB\-o,\-\-output\fR <\fIfilename\fP>
Specify optional VCD output filename.
.TP
\fB\-f,\-\-flatearth\fR
Emit flattened hierarchies.
.TP
.TP
\fB\-n,\-\-notruncate\fR
Do not shorten bitvectors.  This disables binary value compression as
described in the IEEE-1364 specification.  (i.e., all values except for '1'
left propagate as a sign bit on vectors which do not fill up their entire
declared width)
.TP
\fB\-h,\-\-help\fR
Display help then exit.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
To run this program the standard way type:
.TP 
lxt2vcd filename.lxt
The VCD conversion is emitted to stdout.
.SH "LIMITATIONS"
\fIlxt2vcd\fP does not re-create glitches as these are coalesced together into one value change during the writing of the LXT2 file.
.LP
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Anthony Bybell <bybell@rocketmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
\fIvcd2lxt2\fP(1) \fIvcd2lxt\fP(1) \fIgtkwave\fP(1)
