.TH "VCD2LXT2" "1" "1.3.42" "Anthony Bybell" "Filetype Conversion"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
vcd2lxt2 \- Converts VCD files to LXT2 files
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
vcd2lxt2 [\fIoption\fP]... [\fIVCDFILE\fP] [\fILXTFILE\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
Converts VCD files to LXT2 files.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fB\-v,\-\-vcdname\fR <\fIfilename\fP>
Specify VCD input filename.
.TP 
\fB\-l,\-\-lxtname\fR <\fIfilename\fP>
Specify LXT2 output filename.
.TP 
\fB\-d,\-\-depth\fR <\fIvalue\fP>
Specify 0..9 gzip compression depth, default is 4.
.TP 
\fB\-m,\-\-maxgranule\fR <\fIvalue\fP>
Specify number of granules per section, default is 8.  One granule is equal to 32 timsteps.
.TP 
\fB\-b,\-\-break\fR <\fIvalue\fP>
Specify break size (default = 0 = off).  When the break size is exceeded, the LXT2 dumper will
dump all state information at the next convenient granule plus dictionary boundary.
.TP 
\fB\-p,\-\-partialmode\fR <\fImode\fP>
Specify partial zip mode 0 = monolithic, 1 = separation.  Using a value of 1 expands LXT2 filesize but provides 
fast access for very large traces.  Note that the default mode is neither monolithic nor separation: partial zip is disabled.
.TP 
\fB\-c,\-\-checkpoint\fR <\fImode\fP>
Specify checkpoint mode.  0 is on which is default, and 1 is off.  This is disabled when the
break size is active.
.TP 
\fB\-h,\-\-help\fR
Show help screen.
.TP 

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
Note that you should specify dumpfile.vcd directly or use "\-" for stdin.
.TP 
vcd2lxt dumpfile.vcd dumpfile.lxt \-\-depth 9 \-\-break 1073741824
This sets the compression level to 9 and sets the break size to 1GB.
.TP 
vcd2lxt dumpfile.vcd dumpfile.lxt \-\-depth 9 \-\-maxgranule 256
Allows more granules per section which allows for greater compression.
.SH "LIMITATIONS"
\fIvcd2lxt2\fP does not store glitches as these are coalesced together into one value change during the writing of the LXT2 file.
.LP
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Anthony Bybell <bybell@rocketmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
\fIlxt2vcd\fP(1) \fIvcd2lxt2\fP(1) \fIgtkwave\fP(1)
