.TH "VCD2FST" "1" "3.3.53" "Anthony Bybell" "Filetype Conversion"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
vcd2fst \- Converts VCD files to FST files
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
vcd2fst [\fIoption\fP]... [\fIVCDFILE\fP] [\fIFSTFILE\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
Converts VCD files to FST files.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fB\-v,\-\-vcdname\fR <\fIfilename\fP>
Specify VCD/FSDB/VPD/WLF input filename.  Processing of filetypes other than
VCD requires that the appropriate 2vcd converter was found during ./configure.
.TP 
\fB\-f,\-\-fstname\fR <\fIfilename\fP>
Specify FST output filename.
.TP 
\fB\-4,\-\-fourpack\fR
Indicates that LZ4 should be used for value change data (default).
.TP 
\fB\-F,\-\-fastpack\fR
Indicates that fastlz should be used instead of LZ4 for value change data.
.TP 
\fB\-4,\-\-zlibpack\fR
Indicates that zlib should be used instead of LZ4 for value change data.
.TP 
\fB\-c,\-\-compress\fR
Indicates that the entire file should be run through gzip on close.  This
results in much smaller files at the expense of a one-time decompression
penalty on file open during reads.
.TP 
\fB\-p,\-\-parallel\fR
Indicates that parallel mode should be enabled.  This spawns a worker thread
to continue with FST block processing while conversion continues on the main thread for new FST block data.
.TP
\fB\-h,\-\-help\fR
Show help screen.
.TP 

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
Note that you should specify dumpfile.vcd directly or use "\-" for stdin.
.TP 
vcd2fst dumpfile.vcd dumpfile.fst \-\-compress
This indicates that the FST file should be post-compressed on close.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Anthony Bybell <bybell@rocketmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
\fIfst2vcd\fP(1) \fIvcd2lxt\fP(1) \fIvcd2lxt2\fP(1) \fIlxt2vcd\fP(1) \fIvcd2vzt\fP(1) \fIvzt2vcd\fP(1) \fIgtkwave\fP(1)
