.TH "VZTMINER" "1" "3.2.1" "Anthony Bybell" "Dumpfile Data Mining"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
vztminer \- Data mining of VZT files
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
vztminer [\fIoption\fP]... [\fIVZTFILE\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
Mines VZT files for specific data values and generates gtkwave save files to stdout for future reload.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fB\-d,\-\-dumpfile\fR <\fIfilename\fP>
Specify VZT input dumpfile.
.TP 
\fB\-m,\-\-match\fR <\fIvalue\fP>
Specifies "bitwise" match data (binary, real, string)
.TP 
\fB\-x,\-\-hex\fR <\fIvalue\fP>
Specifies hexadecimal match data that will automatically be converted to binary for searches
.TP 
\fB\-n,\-\-namesonly\fR
Indicates that only facnames should be printed in a gtkwave savefile compatible format.  By doing this, the file can be used to
specify which traces are to be imported into gtkwave.
.TP 
\fB\-c,\-\-comprehensive\fR
Indicates that results are not to stop after the first match.  This can be used to extract all the matching values in the trace.
.TP 
\fB\-h,\-\-help\fR
Show help screen.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
vztminer dumpfile.vzt \-\-hex 20470000 \-n
.TP 
This attempts to match the hex value 20470000 across all facilities and when the value is encountered, the facname only is printed to stdout in order to generate a gtkwave compatible save file.
.SH "LIMITATIONS"
\fIvztminer\fP only prints the first time a value is encountered for a specific net.  This is done in order to 
cut down on the size of output files and to aid in following data such as addresses through a simulation model.  Note also that
the reader algorithm attempts to reconstruct bitblasted nets back into their original vectors 
but this is not always successful, specifically in the case where
the individual bitstrands are dumped in non-sequential order.
.LP
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Anthony Bybell <bybell@rocketmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
\fIlxt2miner\fP(1) \fIvzt2vcd\fP(1) \fIlxt2vcd\fP(1) \fIvcd2lxt2\fP(1) \fIgtkwave\fP(1)
