.TH "FSTMINER" "1" "3.3.38" "Anthony Bybell" "Dumpfile Data Mining"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
fst2miner \- Data mining of FST files
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
fstminer [\fIoption\fP]... [\fIFSTFILE\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
Mines FST files for specific data values and generates gtkwave save files to stdout for future reload.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fB\-d,\-\-dumpfile\fR <\fIfilename\fP>
Specify FST input dumpfile.
.TP 
\fB\-m,\-\-match\fR <\fIvalue\fP>
Specifies "bitwise" match data (binary, real, string)
.TP 
\fB\-x,\-\-hex\fR <\fIvalue\fP>
Specifies hexadecimal match data that will automatically be converted to binary for searches
.TP 
\fB\-n,\-\-namesonly\fR
Indicates that only facnames should be printed in a gtkwave savefile compatible format.  By doing this, the file can be used to
specify which traces are to be imported into gtkwave.
.TP 
\fB\-c,\-\-comprehensive\fR
Indicates that results are not to stop after the first match.  This can be used to extract all the matching values in the trace.
.TP 
\fB\-h,\-\-help\fR
Show help screen.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP 
fstminer dumpfile.fst \-\-hex 20470000 \-n
.TP 
This attempts to match the hex value 20470000 across all facilities and when the value is encountered, the facname only is printed to stdout in order to generate a gtkwave compatible save file.
.SH "LIMITATIONS"
\fIfstminer\fP only prints the first time a value is encountered for a specific net.  This is done in order to 
cut down on the size of output files and to aid in following data such as addresses through a simulation model.
.LP
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Anthony Bybell <bybell@rocketmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
\fIvztminer\fP(1) \fIlxt2miner\fP(1) \fIfst2vcd\fP(1) \fIvcd2fst2\fP(1) \fIgtkwave\fP(1)
